Hey everyone, I'm Chris Crowe, campus pastor for Crossway Christian Church's Milford campus here in Southern New Hampshire, where our mission is all about practicing the way of Jesus together as we pursue God, build community, and unleash compassion.
And pray that what you hear today will help you experience God more deeply and live more and more like Jesus.
My name is, hold on, Chris.
And so I am six months now.
I'm just wondering if anybody has been struggling with any sickness at all, like cold, fevers, any kind at all.
Raise your hand, raise your hand, sickness.
Yeah, Lord, we pray in Jesus' name that you would touch bodies even now, because you're the healer.
You do what only you can do, Lord.
And nothing is beyond asking you.
And so we pray that you would be to us, Jehovah Rofi, the God who heals.
Touch bodies, Lord.
and even sickness that would come around the corner for some people.
Lord, we pray that you would divert that away from them and then help them, Lord, to realize that you're ever present to help them, no matter what it is.
Thank you, Lord.
Jesus' name, amen.
Isaiah chapter nine, John did a great job with communion.
Thank you, John.
I actually have the verse that he had read on the screen, and I would like to read it out loud together.
And then I'm gonna have Rochelle light the peace candle, because we're in the middle of Advent and she'll come up after we read this verse together.
And we're looking for something very specific in Isaiah chapter nine, verse six.
Okay, so we'll see if you can get that, ready?
Together all.
For to us the child is born, to us the son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God,
everlasting father, prince of peace.
Prince of peace, right?
All right, Rochelle, if you could come up.
Thank you.
Jesus says that his peace, he would leave with us.
Not as the world gives.
Do I give unto you?
So I don't know if anybody would struggle with any anxiety or lack of peace this morning.
We're an advent and Jesus is the prince of peace.
He is the prince of peace.
I want to continue with you with our series, Rediscovering Christmas by opening our Bibles to Matthew chapter one.
So if you take your Bible and go to Matthew the first chapter and we're going to look into his gospel and then we'll be a little bit in the gospel of Luke as well.
I remember spending Christmas day in New York City.
Lisa and I woke up one Christmas morning and said, what are we going to do today?
And so together we said, how about New York City?
We've always wanted to
see the Big Apple all decked out for the holidays, and so we traveled down to New York City.
It was about a three-hour drive from where we were, and we experienced Radio City Music Hall and the Rockettes and the Christmas Spectacular.
We went to Rockefeller Center and did ice skating.
I have some images if you want to bring those up there.
Take a look at this.
It was just fantastic.
We went by Macy's, and we peeked into Macy's.
Didn't do any shopping there, but we did some
you know, browsing and it was just incredible and spectacular.
All the same was when we looked inside of St. Patrick's Cathedral and saw that decorated for Christmas.
It was just an amazing, amazing experience.
That is until we realized that we left a $50 bill back in the car when our car was taken by a valet person.
And so I went back to get the $50 bill, but Ebenezer had been there before me and took my $50
And that led to losing our Christmas wonder and our Christmas cheer for that day.
How easy it is to lose the wonder of Christmas.
Why?
Well, I think it's because we become so familiar with something that we don't consider the magnificence of it any longer.
There's a quote.
It's from the book, Rediscovering Christmas, where we're getting our series by A.J.
Sherrill.
And he says this, familiarity has a way of eliminating wonder.
Let me say that again, if you could bring that up.
Familiarity has a way of eliminating wonder.
This happens to our experience of Christmas.
It shouldn't take a trip to New York City to rediscover Christmas and the wonder of Christmas.
We're gonna look at a family this morning, Joseph, Mary, and Elizabeth.
They're known as the first family, no, not the Trumps.
We're gonna look at Joseph and Mary, the first family who experienced Christmas.
I titled this message in the second of the series, The Anointed Family.
The Anointed Family.
God was truly with them in such a definitive way and what we'll see is that what they experienced in the wonder of Christmas can be for us as well as families.
The holiday can either stir up strong feelings of joy or stronger feelings of fear.
We have many families represented here at Crossway
Sometimes it gets to be difficult to believe that the wonder of Christmas can be rediscovered because of all of the things that you may as a family been experiencing for so long.
And our prayer is that you would rediscover the wonder and the cheer and the joy of Christmas.
There are three ways I see in our text in the life of Joseph, Mary and Elizabeth that I want to show to you.
we're gonna see that an anointed family is favored, they are filled, and then they are faithful.
Now, when I say anointed, I mean the hand of God is on your life, on your family's life.
The blessing of God, that God has looked to you and looked at you and said, I'm gonna put my favor on that family.
That's what I mean by anointed.
Can you have the anointing of God?
How do you get the anointing of God?
Let's look at first number one.
And if you want to write this down in the outline, they're favored.
An anointed family is favored.
Chapter one, verse 16, you'll notice that Matthew, it says this.
In Jacob the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary of whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ.
If you go back to verse nine,
You'll notice that there's a genealogy of Jesus in Uzziah.
And we looked at Uzziah, just briefly, 52 years he reigned in Judah.
And so Uzziah, the father of Jotham, and then Jotham, the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz, the father of Hezekiah.
Hezekiah, good king or bad king?
Good king.
Ahaz, good king or bad king?
Not so good.
We looked at Ahaz last Lord's Day.
And how he was to turn to the Lord.
The Lord said, I'm gonna show up in your life, Ahaz.
You don't have to make an alliance with the Assyrians.
You don't have to make an alliance with the world or with the enemy because I'm going to show up in your life if you'll trust me.
And he didn't do that.
And that led to all kinds of issues and problems with the nation of Judah.
But it's interesting, but Ahaz falls in the genealogy of Jesus.
He's related to Joseph.
Can you imagine a great, great, great, great, great, great grandfather?
And he was not such a great guy.
And he lived a life that was completely antithetical to the purposes and plans of God.
In fact, he so pervasively brought evil into your generation, into your family line that you're thinking to yourself, and some people do think this, that you know what, I'm just gonna be the same way because it's in my generations before me.
It's almost like I'm cursed, and I'm never gonna be what God has called me to be because if you look at my family line, my history,
And because of all of that, it's gonna fall on me.
And that's the enemy speaking to you.
Because Joseph was a favored man of God, but he was related to Ahaz.
So don't even let that inside of your mind that you have these relatives, this way of living that has been part of your world, whatever you wanna call it, some form of addiction or whatever, to keep you locked and bound
in a stronghold, because Jesus is the Prince of Peace, and he will free you from all of that.
But here we see, it's a very interesting connection.
We won't get into all the history of it all, but Ahaz was related to Joseph, but the Bible says that Joseph was favored.
We need to believe that God is with us no matter the pressure that we're under, and some of you are under some extreme pressure.
I understand that.
Anyway, a prophecy is given to Ahaz,
And it's prophecy of Isaiah chapter seven in verse 14, and how God was going to himself come to be with them in the form of a baby.
Well, we're talking about the hand of God.
This is the anointing.
It could be on your family as it was with Joseph.
You'll notice in the text, verse 19, that it says that Joseph lived justly.
He was a just man.
When Mary was found to be with child, not from Joseph, think about what must have surged through his mind.
Right?
But Joseph's response was always one of character, always his response was with self-control and with compassion.
And I don't doubt that he might have in his private thoughts might have struggled.
Like Lord, why?
And did this really happen?
Or maybe that would have happened and he was just in a quandary inside of it.
He's a human, he's a man.
You know, he has struggles just like the rest of us, but he did live justly, he chose.
To obey the Lord, he had such incredible character in the midst of a very complicated situation.
He lived under the anointing of God.
What mattered most to him was God's hand on his life.
And if there's anything that you would ever ask of the Lord, maybe at Christmastime, that you would ask for his anointing, that you would ask for his favor, that you would say, God, I want your hand to be on my life.
Because right now I feel like you lifted your hand off of it.
I want your hand on my life.
I need you to anoint me.
I need your blessing.
All right, so the New Testament's written in Greek, right?
And anytime I go Greek with you, it's, what time is it when we do that?
It's Chabani time.
And so we're gonna go Chabani on you a little bit here, but I decked it out.
Christmas time.
So we're gonna get a word here.
Kareese, it means favor.
We would say Kareesmatic, a charismatic.
There's been a bestowing upon you of the power of God.
There's been a bestowing you on you of the gifting of God.
This is his anointing, this is his favor, the Kareese.
It means grace, it means blessing.
I love it.
What is your favorite?
Think about that.
There's some root words there, right, with this.
When you talk about favor or favorite, what is your favorite?
What's your favorite thing to do at Christmas time?
Just say it out loud.
What is it?
Be with family and what else?
And somebody said eat, yeah?
And decorate a tree and maybe travel and maybe go to
enjoy a sleigh ride, or what is your favorite?
What is your favorite?
The favor of God.
This is what God said through an angel.
Said it to Mary in Luke chapter one, verse 28.
He said this, come.
He came to her and he said, greetings, oh, favored one, Carice.
God has bestowed upon you, Mary.
He's given to you, Joseph.
He's put his hand on your life.
Over in verse 30 it says this, do not be afraid the angel said, Mary, do not be afraid for you have found favor with God.
It's not the first time in the Bible where favor is mentioned.
Back in the book of Genesis in chapter six, the Bible says you'll be familiar with this verse once I quote it to you.
The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth.
You remember who that was said to?
In the context there, verse eight, but Noah found favor in the eyes of God.
Exodus chapter 11 and verse three, people of God were in Egypt.
Moses was their leader.
The Bible says the Lord gave the people favor.
In the sight of the Egyptians.
I don't understand why favor is given at one point and favor is taken away.
I don't know why Caris is given and bestowed upon me.
And there will be times when the anointing of God is on my life.
And there'll be other times where it'd be like,
It'll be like tumbleweeds.
It'll be like crickets, right?
I don't understand the sovereignty of the Lord and the providence of God when he does all that and when he allows all of these things, but I do believe in it.
And so I do ask for that.
I do ask that God's hand is on my life when I get in the pulpit.
I pray that the favor of God, the careese of God is on you when you listen to the word of God and then he's gonna give you eyes of understanding and ears to hear.
That's favor.
That's gifting.
That's blessing.
Man named Gideon.
I have this up on the screen.
If you could bring that up, notice this.
It's a wonderful story about God's favor.
Oh boy, that's gonna be hard to read.
Here we go, we'll give it a shot.
And the angel of the Lord appeared to him and said to him, the Lord is with you.
Watch the similarities here to what we're talking about at Christmastime in the life of Gideon.
Almighty man of valor and Gideon said to him,
please, my Lord, if the Lord is with us.
Very similar.
Why then has all of this happened to us?
Some of you might, and somebody may be watching online is gonna hear that little part of that verse and go, God, you promised to be with me, but I'm not sensing your presence.
What has happened?
Have you ever asked that question of the Lord?
It's okay to ask that question.
It's okay.
Gideon's doing it here.
What happened to us?
And where are all of the wonderful deeds that our fathers recounted to us saying, does not, excuse me, did not the Lord bring us up from Egypt?
I said something similar to that.
I've never been to Egypt.
But Egypt is representative of being in an unconverted state.
It's symbolic of being in darkness.
And so I have said to the Lord, not Egypt, I said, Lord, you brought me up out of darkness, out of the pit, out of the Myrie clay, into your marvelous light.
And so what has happened?
You brought me up out of all of that, and now I'm experiencing this.
This is so relevant, the life of Gideon.
But now the Lord has forsaken us and given us into the hand of the Midian, of Midian, Midianites, the enemy.
And the Lord turned to him and said, go in this might of yours and save Israel from the hand of Midian.
Do not I send you.
And he said to him, please Lord, how can I save Israel?
Behold my clan is the weakest in all my family is the weakest.
Can you just hear it?
My family is the weakest and I am the least in my father's house.
And the Lord said to him, but I will be with you and you shall strike the Midianites
as one man, and he said to him, if now I have found what?
Favor.
In your eyes, then show me a sign that it is you who's with me.
Favor of God.
They were a favored family.
We need to have the favor of God.
Gideon had it.
We can have it.
God is not a respecter of persons.
If he put the anointing on Gideon, and if he puts the anointing on Moses, and he puts it on Noah, and he puts it on Jesus, and he puts it on Paul, then he'll put it on you.
And me.
And you feel like your family is falling apart.
Like daily.
It's getting worse and worse for you.
And God can reverse that thing, completely turn it around.
This is what he'll do.
Number two, not just their favorite, but their filled.
Verse 18, we see the first reference to the Holy Spirit.
She was found to be with child, then it says from the Holy Spirit.
You wanna write maybe a circle around that word from the Holy Spirit.
The word to Joseph from the angel was that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.
Over in Luke's account of this in the first family at the first Christmas, verse 35 of chapter one says, the Holy Spirit will come upon you and the power of the Most High will overshadow you.
That's anointing.
There are times and even now this can happen that all of a sudden the Holy Spirit is going to overshadow you.
You're not going to be able to explain it, really.
You'll try.
You'll be like, I don't know what's going on.
There's something going on inside of me.
I've been in service as church services and in worship experiences and under the preaching of the Word of God.
And then all of a sudden, I would just start crying.
I just start tearing up.
I was at Times Square Church years ago.
David Wilkerson.
Does that name sound familiar?
And so I was in this church there, and we're just getting ready for church, and we're just kind of sitting together in these chairs, and had about six or seven other friends.
We traveled down there, and I start bawling.
I start crying, and I'm like, church hasn't even started yet.
And I'm thinking, what is going on with me?
I was a little embarrassed, because I'm like, I don't want anybody to see me, you know?
And then I looked down the row, and everybody's crying at the same time.
And I was thinking, holy spirit's here.
I'm being overshadowed.
That's what's going on.
the anointing, the favor, the filling, the control, the leading.
Do you know what was interesting about that?
Is that when we were sitting there and waiting for the service to start, there was a bunch of people on their knees at the altar, they called it an altar.
And there were people and they were just like banging on the altar.
Please God, show up, show up.
It was wild.
That should be happening regularly when we come together.
But I think sometimes we're super comfortable.
Super familiar, like A.J.
Sherrill said.
There's a loss of magnificence.
There's a loss of wonder.
There's a loss of awe.
You see, when I had to go into Times Square Church, I had to walk by and there was this guy on the ground and he was,
struggling with addiction and all kinds of things and probably didn't smell really good.
And then I had to move past another one and then there's some prostitutes you have to maneuver because just to get the church.
That'll make you go like, whoa, what is going on here?
God, we need you to show up now.
See, it's a little bit different.
We can come in and I'm all about donuts, man.
I'm all about Boston cream.
I really am.
I'm all about that.
But if this is kind of the world that we live in, then it's gonna be really hard.
You know, to come to church and all of a sudden it's like, God showed up.
Because there's this loss of desperation.
There's this loss of amazement.
But often, when you're in the deepest, darkest places of your life, or you're in environments like that, like I just told you down in New York, it's a little bit different Christianity then.
A little bit different.
They were filled, we understand being filled with the Holy Spirit.
Verse 41, it's a wonderful verse.
And when Elizabeth, Mary's cousin, heard the greeting of Mary, of course Mary came to Elizabeth and all of a sudden the baby leaped in her womb and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit.
Wait a minute, Acts chapter two didn't happen yet.
Wait a minute, you know, the book of Acts, the Pentecost experience didn't happen yet.
Isn't that when the Holy Spirit came?
Yeah, the Holy Spirit came.
There was a baptism of the Holy Spirit.
There was an anointing that happened.
It says there in Acts chapter two, they were filled with the Holy Spirit.
But the Holy Spirit's been around all since the Old Testament too, you know.
So don't lock the Holy Spirit just in Acts chapter two and on.
Right here, it's proof.
They were filled, Mary.
Joseph was filled with the Spirit, Elizabeth was filled with the Spirit, they were led, they were influenced by the Spirit.
The promptings of the Spirit, the Spirit will prompt you, did you know that?
Did you know that you get a prompting right now?
Holy Spirit's gonna speak to you about something?
Gonna say something to you?
Do you know someone in the house might not be a Christian yet?
They haven't accepted Christ, they haven't repented and put their faith in Jesus alone.
that he was lifted up on a cross and died there as a substitute for you?
And you're not a Christian yet.
But you're saying, what's going on inside of me?
Why do I feel the way that I feel?
It's because the Holy Spirit is working inside of you.
And you're not even saved yet.
Here's some theology there we can talk about sometime.
We don't have a whole lot of time right now to talk about that.
because I know some of you are like, whoa, whoa, whoa, this doesn't make sense.
It doesn't line up.
The Apostle Paul talks about being filled with the Spirit.
He talks about fruit of the Spirit and Galatians.
We fill ourselves much at Christmas, don't we?
Somebody mentioned food, right?
Can you bring up this picture of figgy pudding?
It just wants to gross me out.
I'm just like, no.
People fill up with figgy pudding, really?
Now pumpkin pie I'm good with, right?
But figgy pudding, I'd rather die a horrible death than eat that.
And I'm being honest.
While we fill ourselves, how about festivities, films, or a Christmas movie so much?
We put so much inside of us at Christmas time, but do we put the Holy Spirit inside of us?
Just by asking?
Says this about Zachariah in Luke 1.67, he was filled.
Acts chapter 2, 2-4, we won't look at it.
It talks about a filling of the Spirit.
Philippians 1-11, the apostle Paul said they filled with the fruit of righteousness.
Ephesians 3-19, filled with the fullness of God.
An anointed family has God's favor.
Blessing bestowed on, hand of God on.
Gifts.
And they're filled.
Number two, they're led, they're controlled.
They listen to the promptings, they lean into the spirit of God.
Is this your family?
Number three, they're faithful.
The anointed family is faithful to do what is most pleasing and glorifying to God.
They are vertical more than horizontal.
You see this in Joseph's life.
Matthew chapter.
Thanks for listening to the Crossway Christian Church's Milford Campus Sermit Podcast.
If you'd like to plug into the life of our community or have any questions that we might be able to answer, visit our website at crosswaycc.org to connect with us.
Until next time, we can be with you.
May the Lord bless you and keep you.